README.rst, before:

Sphinx test lesson
==================

This is a Sphinx extension for software-carpentry style
lessons.  It is designed as a replacement for the Jekyll-based software
templates.

* `View the documentation (and example) on github pages
  <https://coderefinery.github.io/sphinx-lesson/>`__.
* `Template repository, to copy from
  <https://github.com/coderefinery/sphinx-lesson-template/>`__.


Features
--------

- Sphinx, including power from all of its extensions.
- ReST
- Markdown via the `myst_parser` parser, so has access to all Sphinx
  directives natively
- Jupyter as a source format, including executing the notebook (via
  ``myst_nb``).
- Automatically building via Github Actions and automatic deployment
  to Github Pages.  Included workflow file builds all branches, so you
  can also preview pull requests.
- Directives for exercises/prereq/etc, works in both ReST and md.
- The Sphinx part can be separated into a separately installable
  and versionable Python package, so we don't need git sub-modules.
- Execute code cells in markdown (via ``myst_nb``).
- Consists of sub-extensions for substitutions.  Adding
  ``sphinx_lesson`` as an extension will bring in these:

  - ``sphinx_lesson.directives`` (the core directives)
  - ``sphinx_lesson.md_transforms`` (reprocess some other markdown
    format into myst_nb format)
  - ``myst_nb`` (not developed by us)



Host Site Locally for Development
---------------------------------

1. Create a virtual python environment::

     python -m venv venv

2. Activate the virtual environment::

     source activate venv/bin/activate

3. Install python packages::

     pip install -r requirements.txt

4. Start a live-compiled service for your compiled site for local development::

     make livehtml

5. View created site in your browser at `http://localhost:8000 <http://localhost:8000>`__ (follow the link in your console)



Status
------

In beta use by CodeRefinery and active development.  External users
would be fine (but let us know so we know to keep things stable).

Commit message:

README: Clarify that you can also view statically

README.rst, after:

Sphinx test lesson
==================

This is a Sphinx extension for software-carpentry style
lessons.  It is designed as a replacement for the Jekyll-based software
templates.

* `View the documentation (and example) on github pages
  <https://coderefinery.github.io/sphinx-lesson/>`__.
* `Template repository, to copy from
  <https://github.com/coderefinery/sphinx-lesson-template/>`__.


Features
--------

- Sphinx, including power from all of its extensions.
- ReST
- Markdown via the `myst_parser` parser, so has access to all Sphinx
  directives natively
- Jupyter as a source format, including executing the notebook (via
  ``myst_nb``).
- Automatically building via Github Actions and automatic deployment
  to Github Pages.  Included workflow file builds all branches, so you
  can also preview pull requests.
- Directives for exercises/prereq/etc, works in both ReST and md.
- The Sphinx part can be separated into a separately installable
  and versionable Python package, so we don't need git sub-modules.
- Execute code cells in markdown (via ``myst_nb``).
- Consists of sub-extensions for substitutions.  Adding
  ``sphinx_lesson`` as an extension will bring in these:

  - ``sphinx_lesson.directives`` (the core directives)
  - ``sphinx_lesson.md_transforms`` (reprocess some other markdown
    format into myst_nb format)
  - ``myst_nb`` (not developed by us)



Host Site Locally for Development
---------------------------------

1. Create a virtual python environment::

     python -m venv venv

2. Activate the virtual environment::

     source activate venv/bin/activate

3. Install python packages::

     pip install -r requirements.txt

4. Build local files (this can also be used for deployment)::

     make html
     # Output in _build/html/
     make clean html             # clean + full rebuild

5. Or, start a live-compiled service for your compiled site for local development::

     make livehtml

   Then view created site in your browser at `http://localhost:8000 <http://localhost:8000>`__ (follow the link in your console).



Status
------

In beta use by CodeRefinery and active development.  External users
would be fine (but let us know so we know to keep things stable).
