content/index.md, before:

# sphinx-lesson: structured lessons with Sphinx

:::{seealso}
See a real demo lesson at
<https://coderefinery.github.io/github-without-command-line/>.
:::

sphinx-lesson is a set of Sphinx extensions and themes for creating
interactive, hands-on lessons.  It was originally made to replace the
CodeRefinery jekyll themes, but is designed to be used by others.

As the name says, it is based on the [Sphinx documentation generator](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/).  It is also inspired by and based on
[jupyter-book](https://jupyterbook.org/), but both is jupyter-book
and isn't.  It *is* because jupyter-book is based on Sphinx and
modular, we reuse all of those same Sphinx extensions which
jupyter-book has made.  It *isn't* jupyter-book because we configure
Sphinx directly, instead of wrapping it through jupyter-book
configuration and building.  Thus, we get full control and high
compatibility.

Features:

- Separate content and presentation: easy to adjust theme or control
  the parts independently.
- Based on jupyter-book, cross-compatible.
- Built with Sphinx, providing a structured, controlled output.
- Distributed as Python pip packages
- Markdown and ReStructured equally supported (yes, including all
  directives), though ReStructured Text is still a bit nicer
- Jupyter notebooks as an input format.  Can execute code (in jupyter
  and other formats, too)
- Transparent transformation of jekyll-style markdown styles into
  CommonMark with directives
- Also renders with sphinx-book-theme (theme of jupyterbook) ([preview](https://coderefinery.github.io/sphinx-lesson/branch/sphinx-book-theme/))

This is in an alpha state: we use it for lessons, but there is still
refinement work to go.

:::{prereq}
- If you know Sphinx, it helps some.  If not, it's easy to copy
- Markdown or ReStructured text
- Hosting is usually by github-pages
:::

```{toctree}
:caption: Getting started
:maxdepth: 1

getting-started
installation
contributing-to-a-lesson
building
changelog
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Basic syntax
:maxdepth: 1

md-and-rst
toctree
directives
figures
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Examples
:maxdepth: 1

sample-episode-myst
sample-episode-rst
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Advanced features
:maxdepth: 1

intersphinx
md-transforms
jupyter
executing-code
substitutions-replacements
gh-action
presentation-mode
indexing
exercise-list
convert-old-lessons
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Extras
:maxdepth: 1

cheatsheet
```

- {ref}`genindex`
- {ref}`search`

Commit message:

Emphasize MyST, various other improvements
- Emphasize MyST by putting those examples first and making sure they
  are everywhere.
- Various other small text updates to say what is old and no longer
  needed.
- Various other small wording changes where needed.
- Review: automerge

content/index.md, after:

# sphinx-lesson: structured lessons with Sphinx

:::{seealso}
See a real demo lesson at
<https://coderefinery.github.io/github-without-command-line/>.
:::

sphinx-lesson is a set of Sphinx extensions and themes for creating
interactive, hands-on lessons.  It was originally made to replace the
CodeRefinery jekyll themes, but is designed to be used by others.

The broad idea is that making teaching materials should be quite
similar to good software documentation.  Sphinx-lesson adds a model
and a few nice extras to bring them closer together.

As the name says, it is based on the [Sphinx documentation generator](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/).  It is also inspired by and based on
[jupyter-book](https://jupyterbook.org/), but both is jupyter-book
and isn't.  It *is* because jupyter-book is based on Sphinx and
modular, we reuse all of those same Sphinx extensions which
jupyter-book has made.  It *isn't* jupyter-book because we configure
Sphinx directly, instead of wrapping it through jupyter-book
configuration and building.  Thus, we get full control and high
compatibility.

Features:

- Separate content and presentation: easy to adjust theme or control
  the parts independently.
- Based on jupyter-book, cross-compatible.
- Built with Sphinx, providing a structured, controlled output.
- Distributed as Python pip packages
- Markdown and ReStructured equally supported as input formats (yes, including all
  directives).
- Jupyter notebooks as an input format.  Can execute code (in jupyter
  and other formats, too)
- Transparent transformation of jekyll-style markdown styles into
  CommonMark with directives (mainly of use for old CodeRefinery lessons)
- Also renders with sphinx-book-theme (theme of jupyterbook)
  ([preview](https://coderefinery.github.io/sphinx-lesson/branch/sphinx-book-theme/))
  and other Sphinx themes.

This is in heavy internal use, and about ready for other users who are
interested.

:::{prereq}
- If you know Sphinx, it helps some.  If not, it's easy to copy
- Markdown or ReStructured text
- Hosting is usually by github-pages
:::

```{toctree}
:caption: Getting started
:maxdepth: 1

getting-started
installation
contributing-to-a-lesson
building
changelog
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Basic syntax
:maxdepth: 1

md-and-rst
toctree
directives
figures
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Examples
:maxdepth: 1

sample-episode-myst
sample-episode-rst
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Advanced features
:maxdepth: 1

intersphinx
md-transforms
jupyter
executing-code
substitutions-replacements
gh-action
presentation-mode
indexing
exercise-list
convert-old-lessons
```

```{toctree}
:caption: Extras
:maxdepth: 1

cheatsheet
```

- {ref}`genindex`
- {ref}`search`
