content/presentation-mode.rst, before:

Presentation mode
=================

Using `minipres <https://github.com/coderefinery/sphinx-minipres>`__,
any web page can be turned into a presentation.  As usual, there is
nothing very specific to sphinx-lesson about this, but currently
minipres is only tested on ``sphinx_rtd_theme``, but theoretically can
work on others.

Using minipres, you only have to write one page: the material your
students read.  Then, you hide the unnecessary elements (table of
contents), focus on one section, and provide a quick way to jump
between sections.  Then you can get the focused attention of a
presentation and the readability of a single page.

How it works:

- Add ``?minipres`` to the URL of any page, and it goes into
  presentation mode.
- Add ``?plain`` to the URL of any page to go to plain mode.

In presentation mode:

- The sidebars are removed (this is the only thing that happens in
  ``plain`` mode).
- Extra space is added between each section (HTML headings), so that
  you focus on one section at a time
- The **left/right arrow keys** scroll between sections.

Examples:

* `View this page as an example of minipres
  <../sample-episode-rst/?minipres>`__.
* `View this page in "plain" mode <../sample-episode-rst/?plain>`__.

Commit message:

content/presentation-mode: Add technical demo warning

content/presentation-mode.rst, after:

Presentation mode
=================

.. note::

   This is a technical demo, included by default to make it easy to
   use.  It may be removed in a future release.

Using `minipres <https://github.com/coderefinery/sphinx-minipres>`__,
any web page can be turned into a presentation.  As usual, there is
nothing very specific to sphinx-lesson about this, but currently
minipres is only tested on ``sphinx_rtd_theme``, but theoretically can
work on others.

Using minipres, you only have to write one page: the material your
students read.  Then, you hide the unnecessary elements (table of
contents), focus on one section, and provide a quick way to jump
between sections.  Then you can get the focused attention of a
presentation and the readability of a single page.

How it works:

- Add ``?minipres`` to the URL of any page, and it goes into
  presentation mode.
- Add ``?plain`` to the URL of any page to go to plain mode.

In presentation mode:

- The sidebars are removed (this is the only thing that happens in
  ``plain`` mode).
- Extra space is added between each section (HTML headings), so that
  you focus on one section at a time
- The **left/right arrow keys** scroll between sections.

Examples:

* `View this page as an example of minipres
  <../sample-episode-rst/?minipres>`__.
* `View this page in "plain" mode <../sample-episode-rst/?plain>`__.
